dependencies.rst, before:

.. _dependencies:

************
Dependencies
************

To automatically deploy DISCOS, you need to install four dependencies:
`Git <https://git-scm.com/>`_, `Ansible <https://www.ansible.com/>`_,
`Vagrant <https://www.vagrantup.com/>`_ and `VirtualBox
<https://www.virtualbox.org/>`_.  It usually takes about 15 minutes.


.. note:: If you are accustomed to python virtual environments
   (like `pyenv` or similar), you can install the required pip packages
   mentioned in the procedure below in your preferred environment,
   without the need of administrator permissions.


Install Git
===========
Before installing Git, verify if it is already installed:

.. code-block:: shell

   $ git --version
   git version 1.9.1

You do not need a particular version of Git, but if the command ``git --version``
fails, than you have to install Git by following the instructions at the `official Git
website <https://git-scm.com/book/en/v1/Getting-Started-Installing-Git>`_.

Install Ansible
===============
Verify if Ansible is already installed:

.. code-block:: shell

   ansible --version
   ansible 2.6.3

If the command ``ansible --version`` fails, than you have to install Ansible.

The suggested way to do this is via `pip`:

.. code-block:: shell

    $ sudo pip install ansible

In case the last command fails, or if you want to install Ansible in a different way,
check out the `official ansible website
<http://docs.ansible.com/ansible/intro_installation.html#installation>`_.


Install VirtualBox and Vagrant
==============================
You need to install VirtualBox and Vagrant only if you want to
deploy DISCOS on VMs, as in the case of a development environment.
As a first step, check if VirtualBox is already installed:

.. code-block:: shell

   $ which virtualbox 
   /usr/bin/virtualbox

In case it is not, download the binary file from the
`official website <https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads>`_
and install it.
Now verify if Vagrant is already installed:

.. code-block:: shell

   $ vagrant --version
   Vagrant 1.8.6

If it is not, download the binary file from
the `vagrant official website <https://www.vagrantup.com/downloads.html>`_
and install it.


At this point you are ready to deploy DISCOS.  The :ref:`deploy_quickstart`
section is a good starting point, because it covers a typical scenario.

Commit message:

Fix #184, reviewed scripts, improved setup procedure. (#199)
Also the documentation has been updated. To bring the updates on readthedocs the additions should be propagated to the `discos/doc` repository.

dependencies.rst, after:

.. _dependencies:

************
Dependencies
************

To automatically deploy DISCOS, you need to install four dependencies:
`Git <https://git-scm.com/>`_, `Ansible <https://www.ansible.com/>`_,
`Vagrant <https://www.vagrantup.com/>`_ and `VirtualBox
<https://www.virtualbox.org/>`_.  It usually takes about 15 minutes.


.. note:: If you are accustomed to python virtual environments
   (like `pyenv` or similar), you can install the required pip packages
   mentioned in the procedure below in your preferred environment,
   without the need of administrator permissions.


Install Git
===========
Before installing Git, verify if it is already installed:

.. code-block:: shell

   $ git --version
   git version 1.9.1

You do not need a particular version of Git, but if the command ``git --version``
fails, than you have to install Git by following the instructions at the `official Git
website <https://git-scm.com/book/en/v1/Getting-Started-Installing-Git>`_.


Install Ansible
===============
Verify if Ansible is already installed:

.. code-block:: shell

   ansible --version
   ansible 2.6.3

If the command ``ansible --version`` fails, than you have to install Ansible.

The suggested way to do this is via `pip`:

.. code-block:: shell

    $ sudo pip install ansible==2.6.3

In case the last command fails, or if you want to install Ansible in a
different way, check out the `official ansible website
<http://docs.ansible.com/ansible/intro_installation.html#installation>`_.

.. note:: WARNING: as of today (10/10/2018), Ansible version 2.7.0 is somehow
   not capable of completing the deployment procedure. As you may have noticed
   from the command above, the suggested Ansible version is the 2.6.3, with
   which the deployment procedure has been thoroughly tested.


Install VirtualBox and Vagrant
==============================
You need to install VirtualBox and Vagrant only if you want to
deploy DISCOS on VMs, as in the case of a development environment.
As a first step, check if VirtualBox is already installed:

.. code-block:: shell

   $ which virtualbox 
   /usr/bin/virtualbox

In case it is not, download the binary file from the
`official website <https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads>`_
and install it.
Now verify if Vagrant is already installed:

.. code-block:: shell

   $ vagrant --version
   Vagrant 1.8.6

If it is not, download the binary file from
the `vagrant official website <https://www.vagrantup.com/downloads.html>`_
and install it.


At this point you are ready to deploy DISCOS.  The :ref:`deploy_quickstart`
section is a good starting point, because it covers a typical scenario.
